Before we dive into singular value decomposition,
it's important to understand latent factors.
A latent factor is not actually observed in our data,
rather, we infer it based on the ratings users give to items.
What are possible latent factors that are related to the movies in our data set?
One latent factor might be that a movie is sad,
or that it's about artificial intelligence,
or that a movie stars Meryl Streep,
or that it has a puppy in it,
or latent factor might be that there's a movie that has a Canadian actor named Ryan.
These aren't data points that are directly in our data,
but we might be able to find as latent factors.
For example, if you look at the movie, The Notebook,
you'll notice that the movie both has a Canadian Ryan and scenes that'll make you cry,
while this movie called A.I.
has Meryl Streep and artificial intelligence.
Alternatively, latent factors might also be related to users' preferences.
If we look at Jesse,
we can see that she has positive ratings related to the latent factors of dogs,
Canadian Ryans, and sad movies,
while Sam likes AI,
Meryl Streep and also likes dogs.
The idea of finding how movies and users relate to
latent factors is central to how we make predictions using SVD.
In the next video,
we'll take a closer look at how these relationships show up when performing SVD.